#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\pagestyle{fancy}
\fancyhead[RE]{\bfseries \nouppercase\leftmark}
\fancyhead[LO]{\bfseries \nouppercase \rightmark}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{%
\markboth{\chaptername 
\ \thechapter\ }{}}

 
\fancyhead[LE,RO]{\bfseries\thepage}
\fancyfoot{}
\raggedbottom
\setlength{\parindent}{8mm}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ../Master.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Concluding remarks and recomendations for future work 
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This thesis investigated fire weather in two regions of the Southern Hemisphere.
 These study areas were: Victoria, Australia and the Ecuadorian Andes.
 Large-scale weather patterns shaped the development of a fire weather index
 for Victoria: the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Victorian Seasonal Bushfire Index
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 (VSBI).
 The research used this index and the McArthur Forest Fire Danger Index
 (FFDI) to explore past fire weather changes in this region.
 It also tested the VSBI's skill to predict extreme fire weather seasons.
 On the other hand, the study assessed the ability of the FFDI to represent
 fire weather in Ecuador.
 Finally, the relationship between fire weather and the El Niño-Southern
 Oscillation in the Ecuadorian Andes was examined.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The major findings of this investigation are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Bushfire and heatwave weather patterns display differences in Victoria.
 Cold fronts define extreme fire weather in this region.
 In contrast, persistent excess heat characterises heatwaves.
 Australia experiences dry conditions during fire activity in Victoria.
 On the other hand, a dry southern Australia contrasts with wet regions
 during heatwaves.
 The patterns show a clear influence of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

El Niño
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 events during bushfires.
 Conversely, heatwaves in this region are not driven by this climate mode
 of variability.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Victoria experienced an increase in fire danger during the period 1974-2010.
 Observations confirmed this finding using three seasonal fire weather metrics.
 Moreover, the most robust reanalysis trend traces the increase back to
 1920.
 Rising temperatures coupled with a decrease in rainfall contributed to
 this long-term tendency.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Positive Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

El Niño
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 events precondition fire activity in Victoria.
 The main effect of these two drivers is to reduce the relative humidity
 in spring.
 This reduction generates dry conditions that prepare vegetation for ignitions.
 The influence of positive IOD events over fire weather is greater than
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

El Niño
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 phases in spring.
 However, the two climate modes of variability are strongly linked.
 In summer, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

El Niño
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 events become the most important remote driver of fire weather.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A simple index (VSBI) based on local and remote climate drivers shows skill
 to forecast fire weather in Victoria.
 This metric demonstrates seasonal predictive capability from spring to
 summer.
 Additionally, the VSBI demonstrates comparable accuracy to represent fire
 weather than the McArthur Forest Fire Danger Index.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The McArthur Forest Fire Danger Index is a reliable metric to represent
 fire weather in the Ecuadorian Andes.
 Using this index, the study provided a quantitative confirmation that the
 fire danger season in this region spans from July to November.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

El Niño
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 events increase fire danger in the Ecuadorian Andes.
 ENSO influences fire weather in this region through its effect on temperature
 and precipitation.
 In contrast to the coastal response, the highlands experience rainfall
 reductions during 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

El Niño
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Simultaneously, temperature increases in the Andes during these events.
 A higher forest fire danger during 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

El Niño
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is consistent with its impacts on other Andean natural systems (e.g., glacier
 retreats).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition, this thesis identified several aspects that deserve further
 investigation:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The exploration of fire weather in Victoria used the 20CR ensemble mean.
 The results depicted an increasing trend in fire danger in Victoria since
 1920.
 However, this reanalysis project has 56 realisations.
 Each model output represents an equally possible state of the atmosphere.
 Therefore, additional 20R realisations could be used to quantify uncertainties
 linked to past fire weather changes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Further research could use the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project phase
 6 (CMIP6) models to project the VSBI.
 This investigation could provide insights of future fire weather changes
 in Victoria.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Developing a fire activity database for Ecuador could open further research
 opportunities (e.g.
 land management, environmental impacts, social studies, etc.).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The study areas in this investigation included Victoria, Australia and the
 Ecuadorian Andes.
 However, it would be interesting to expand the areas of investigation.
 For example, future investigations could comprise southeast Australia and
 other Andean regions.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
